# phoXiv

To contribute, fork the repository, make your own changes on a separate branch, then open a pull request. See the [GitHub docs](https://docs.github.com/en/get-started/exploring-projects-on-github/contributing-to-a-project#creating-a-branch-to-work-on) for more information.

## Building

First, install a Javascript runtime like [Bun](https://bun.com/). Then, install all dependencies with `bun install`.

Run any of the scripts below with `bun run <script>` or the equivalent in whatever runtime you use. All important commands are in [package.json](./package.json).

- `dev` - run local development server **warning: there is an issue that I have not fixed yet. you need to manually create an empty directory for pcup (at `/static/contests/pcup/`)so the pregeneration script doesn't crash when it tries to read a nonexistent directory. I have it on my local repository but git does not track empty directories!**
- `preview` - run deployment preview
- `deploy` - deploy to remote

This project is built with:

- Frontend: Svelte
- Backend: SvelteKit
- Database (not functional yet): Drizzle ORM
- UI Library: shadcn-svelte

## Structure

The structure of this website is as follows: competitions are known as "contests". Each contest is split into "years", and within a year, there are multiple "problems".

### Pregeneration

You may have noticed that the build script runs [problems.ts](./src/lib/pregen/problems.ts). This is a pregeneration script that generates the file [files.json](./src/lib/pregen/files.json) containing all the problems in a javascript object. The purpose of this is to make adding problems easier. In some ways this makes the website a glorified file explorer.

All of the pregeneration scripts can be run by simply doing `bun run pregen`.

File syntax can be customised in [fileSyntax.ts](./src/lib/pregen/fileSyntax.ts).

## Adding content


### Adding new contests

1. Create a new entry in [contests.ts](./src/lib/pregen/contests.ts) with the information about the contest. This will automatically add the contest to the homepage and "registers" the contest in the automated scripts.
2. Add the necessary files to the folder in static, with the right file syntax.
3. Add a folder with the corresponding contest id in `./src/routes/contests`, and include a `+page.svx` file. Optionally include a description.

### Adding new problems

There are two types of files you can add:
1. Year-level files: these are the files that apply to all problems within that year. 
2. Problem-level files: files that only apply to a specific problem, like T1, T1 solutions, etc.

**Year-level files** should be added to the contest folder within [static](/static/contests), with the necessary file syntax: `<year><file syntax>`. The file syntax indicates what kind of file it is (problem, solution etc.). For example, the path to the problems for the USAPhO 2019 is `/static/contests/usapho/2019.pdf`, and the solutions are `/static/contests/usapho/2019_S.pdf`. All file syntaxes can be found in [fileSyntax.ts](./src/lib/pregen/fileSyntax.ts) The allowed file extensions are in the pregeneration file [problems.ts](./src/lib/pregen/problems.ts), but usually you don't have to care because most files are pdfs.

**Problem-level files** should be included in the year's folder, i.e. `<contest>/<year>/`, with the syntax `<problem number><file syntax>`. The allowed problem numbers are in the pregeneration file too. For example, the solution to IPhO 2025 T2 has the path `/static/contests/ipho/2025/T2_S.pdf`.

### Problem names
You may optionally include the problem names (titles) by editing [problemNames.csv](./src/lib/pregen/problemNames.csv) and running the conversion script [problemNames.ts](./src/lib/pregen/problemNames.ts) to generate [the json file](./src/lib/pregen/problemNames.json).


### External links/comments

Adding comments to specific years can be done in [AdditionalYearFiles.svelte](./src/routes/contests/AdditionalYearFiles.svelte). Remember to update the [helper function](./src/routes/contests/additionalYearFiles.ts).

## TODO

### High priority
- fix the stupid looking emojis in the contest list
- add a "hide solutions" button
- ~~add a menu to scroll to years quickly, or some sort of search function~~
- ~~add problem names for ipho and apho~~

### Medium priority
- maybe make files dynamically generated by Vite? As the repo gets larger the build time is getting longer. Using a CDN may be better. See [SvelteKit's /static documentation](https://svelte.dev/docs/kit/project-structure#Project-files-static) or the [image documentation](https://svelte.dev/docs/kit/images#Vite's-built-in-handling)
- the file display name is "problems" or "solutions" even when it is referring to a single problem or solution
- Could standardise all of the pregen data into csvs. [Convert the array of objects into csv](https://dev.to/samueldjones/convert-an-array-of-objects-to-csv-string-in-javascript-337d)
- changelog
- return to top button

### Low priority
- include eupho statutes
- add "collections" to group contests together
- make links in mdsvex external (use custom components)
